>> Kyle Simpson: When we assign
some value to a variable, or
in the case of line 1 having assigned
anything, that sort of defaults,
then we use an operator like typeof as our
first way of looking at that value and
determining something about its identity,
its kind, its type.
And we're not asking what's
the typeof the variable v,
we're asking what is the typeof
the value that is currently in v.
That's what line 2 says.
What is the typeof the value
that's currently in v?
And you'll notice that on line 2
it returns the string undefined.
Now that's interesting because
essentially we can think of undefined
as basically a default value.
It's a value that exists when the vacuum
of space has removed everything else.
When there is no other value,
the value that you have is
called the undefined value.
And remember,
there's an undefined type with one and
only one value in it called undefined.
So typeof is telling us v
currently is undefined.
It got initialized and it's undefined.
And that, by the way,
does not mean it doesn't have a value yet.
A lot of people think,
undefined means doesn't have a value yet.
The most appropriate way to think about
it is, does not currently have a value.
Because it's entirely plausible and
possible, and often happens,
that you have a variable or
a property that has some value and
then it goes back to the state
of not having a value anymore.
You set it to undefined, you undefine it.
That doesn't remove it.
It doesn't delete it.
It doesn't magically make it go away.
It just takes it back to that state where
the value that it's holding is undefined.
Now, when I assign the string and
say typeof v, I get quote string.
When I assign a number,
I get quote number.
You'll notice that
all of these return values from
the typeof operator are strings.
That's critical and we'll see why
later when we get into coercion, but
it's critical for you to understand
this is an operator that guarantees
that it will always return a string.
And not only will it
always return a string,
it's essentially a short eNom list.
There's only a very small subset of
strings that it will ever return.
And none of them are the empty string.
None of them are these values that
aren't strings like null or undefined.
And I see this mistake
all the time in blogs.
People will say typeof equal,
equal undefined,
without any quotes and
that makes no sense whatsoever because
the typeof operator literally
cannot return that.
Guess how I know.
I read the spec.
It does not return an undefined value,
it always returns a string.
And if the string is a predictable
known list, then we've reduced
the whole surface area of confusion of
what could possibly come back from this.
We can predict its outcome much better.
>> Kyle Simpson: That'll
be important later on.
So typeof is returning
strings that represent, hey,
here's some clue as to what you
can expect to be able to do with
values of this particular
kind of this particular type.
>> Kyle Simpson: Ergonomically, that's
what we can then rely upon in our code.
We have something that is
going to behave as a number.
going to behave as a string.
You notice we don't have all the values
like we don't have a typeof within
an array to give us the word array.
So it's just gonna give us
back object because remember,
arrays are subtypes of object.
So we're gonna need further distinguishing
if we need to get into those subtypes,
but at the top level we can distinguish
roughly based on all of these.
Now, I mentioned the null
being on that list as special.
You'll notice that when we say
typeof v equals null, I'm sorry,
when we say v equals null and
typeof v, we get back quote object.
Now, this is a historical
fact of JavaScript.
As a matter of fact, in the current
spec that exists at this moment,
it still has a statement that was
there from ES1 which essentially
indicated to developers that if you
wanted to unset a regular value,
like a number, you would use undefined.
But if you wanted to unset an object
reference, you would use null.
And I think that's part of the historical
reason for why typeof null returns object.
But the real truth of the matter,
I was tweeting about this years back,
and the real truth of the matter
is that it's just a bug.
It ought to have returned quote null
to tell us that this a value of
the type null.
Unfortunately, it returns quote object, so
you have to be a little bit more careful.
You have to make sure,
when you're doing a typeof check and
it returns object, make sure that
it's not accidentally the null,
because then you're not gonna
get an object but a null value.
And then we see function here.
Remember, function is not an official type
at the top level,
in the most official sense.
But it has its own return value here,
the typeof operator returns as function.
So it's useful that it returns to us
function, but arrays, it doesn't.
Arrays just returns object.
A lot of these are just, again,
historical things about JavaScript.
We can't fix them because if we fix them,
we'd break a bunch of code.
So rather than whine or
complain about them,
we should just learn them and
work around them, okay?
It's regrettable that you
can't just say typeof, but
there are other helpers in language,
in particular, with respect to array,
there's Array.isArray, and it'll tell you
for sure or not whether you have an array.
So that's how we distinguish these
primitive values with their types.
We can use utilities like typeof and
when we need a little bit more specifics,
a little bit more nuance,
we can use utilities like Array.isArray.
They'll tell us something about the nature
of the value which tells us what
we can expect.